---
layout: post
filename: 2011-11-12-First.
title: "First."
date: 2011-11-12 14-06
status: publish
permalink: /first
---
First, I owe you an explanation.

My name is Tom.  I had a tendency to be overly critical of things.  As I grew older, I learned that in fact I was merely critical of things, and that the modifier “overly” is only a judgment on <em>how</em> one criticizes, not what or how much.  There is plenty in this world to be critical of.

But I am not aiming to make this simply a list of things I hate.  Such a list would be endless, and probably boring, and would present only one dimension of the world.

I suspect, given time, a few distinct categories of posts will emerge.  I will tag them, and organize them, and provide some semblance of structure to this website.  I will not be organizing them yet, however, because I’m interested in seeing what pockets of subjects emerge without any outside direction.

If these posts seem schizophrenic at first, fear not.  They will become less so.  The beginning will just be  a glimpse into an unorganized mind.  I don’t think this will be a bad thing; order will emerge eventually.  Too many people try to create order in their lives before it is natural to do so, and as a result end up describing their entire selves with their career, or if they’re more adventuresome, a career and a hobby.  I am not a career and a hobby; I don’t even know what my hobbies are.  I don’t know if my career path will change.  I am still young, and am unwilling to set boundaries on my self yet.  So why would I on this website?  If, instead, I allow the boundaries to materialize naturally, they won’t feel like a trap; they’ll be reassuring, solid, something to press against for a comforting touch.

That’s how walls should be.  Like the ground to a sailor.